vuemotion already exist this is no longer new technology yet how can i do something different my main focus sports is football
To stay competitive against established tools like VUEmotion—which is already used by elite clubs like the Geelong Cats and Houston Texans for sprint mechanics and asymmetry detection—you must shift from "standard biomechanics" to contextual tactical-biomechanics.
While VUEmotion excels at measuring how an athlete moves in a straight line or during a simple cut, it often lacks the "game-context" that coaches actually care about on the pitch.
Here is how you can make your project unique for football:
1. The "Fatigue-to-Fail" Predictor (Novelty: Temporal Degradation)
VUEmotion typically analyzes a single "best" rep. In a real match, injuries like hamstring tears often happen in the 80th minute when form breaks down.
The Difference: Instead of one video, allow coaches to upload clips from the start and end of a training session.
Functionality: Use your DNN to compare Ground Contact Time (GCT) and Hip Height between the two videos. If the player's hips drop or GCT increases by >15% at the end of the session, your system flags a "High Fatigue/Injury Risk" warning.
2. Multi-View "Digital Twin" (Novelty: 3D Reconstruction from 2D)
Most existing apps use a single smartphone angle, which leads to "kinematic crosstalk" (errors when a limb is hidden or at an angle).
The Difference: Use Multi-view Pose Estimation. Allow the user to upload two videos of the same movement from different angles (e.g., side and front).
Functionality: Use a Homography matrix to sync the views and create a 3D skeletal "Digital Twin." This allows you to measure Knee Valgus (ACL risk) much more accurately than a single-camera app could. 
3. Tactical Pose-Estimation (Novelty: Biomechanics + Ball)
Existing tools often treat the player as a runner, not a footballer.
The Difference: Integrate Object Detection (YOLOv11) for the ball alongside the pose estimation.
Functionality: Analyze mechanics during the ball strike. For example, measure the "Plant Foot" stability and the "Follow-through" angle. Research shows that poor plant-leg stability during high-power shots is a major cause of Groin and Hip Labrum injuries. VUEmotion does not focus on the "striking mechanics" in this detail.
4. Comparison Table: Why Your Project is Better
Feature 	VUEmotion / Standard Apps	Your "Enhancer" Project
Core Goal	General Kinematics (Speed/Angles)	Injury Context (ACL/Hamstring risk)
Analysis	Single rep "Best form"	Fatigue analysis (Form vs. Time)
Environment	Controlled "Test Zone" (Cones)	Dynamic environment (During play/ball-striking)
Feedback	Raw Data / Radar Chart	Corrective "Ghost" Overlay (Visual coaching)
5. Unique Technical Add-on: The "Ghost" Overlay
Professional coaches often struggle to explain data to players.
Feature: Create a visual "Ghost" skeleton that is semi-transparent and follows the "perfect" biomechanical path.
Implementation: If a player’s knee caves in (valgus), the "Ghost" shows where the knee should be in bright green, while the player's real skeleton turns red. This visual feedback loop is much more "actionable" for a coach than a PDF report.
Next Steps to Proceed:
If you want to start building, I recommend focusing on one specific football action first:
The "Cutter": Change of direction (ACL focus).
The "Striker": Long-range shooting (Hip/Groin focus).
The "Sprinter": Late-game 30m sprints (Hamstring focus).
Which one of these "Injury Archetypes" sounds most interesting to you? I can help you find the specific mathematical formulas for the joint angles used in those movements.







4 sites
Webinar: AI and Markerless Motion Capture for Ergonomic ...
29 Jan 2025 — good afternoon everyone I'm kathern Brookman associate director knowledge transfer and exchange. and on behalf of Dr Jack Callahan...

10m


YouTube
·
CRE-MSD UW
A Matchbox-Sized Sensor That Puts Performance Analytics in ...
8 Oct 2025 — so far wearables. and data of which what you're going to show off does a whole lot of both. so why don't we start with what your w...

4m


YouTube
·
Daily Tech News Show
Integrating multimodal AI technologies for sports injury prediction ...
2 Oct 2025 — Real-Time feedback and adaptive support Beyond passive assessment, AI systems are capable of delivering real-time, actionable feed...


Journal of Human Sport and Exercise
Show all
Visually searched image
i have uploaded the vuemotion website functionalities they provide, what can i do different to make my project unique and which are must core functionlities i should add same as vuemotion?
To make your Football Movement Mechanics Enhancer project unique while matching the industry standards set by competitors like VueMotion, you should focus on shifting from general athleticism to football-specific injury prevention and tactical biomechanics.
Core Functionalities to Match (Industry Standard)
The VueMotion pricing structure shows that professional-grade tools must offer these foundational features:
Automated Video Processing: A robust backend using OpenCV + DNN to automatically extract skeletal landmarks without manual tagging.
Multi-View Capture: Capability to sync and process videos from multiple angles (e.g., front and side views) for more accurate 3D joint angle calculation.
Automated Reporting: Generation of PDF Reports that translate complex skeletal data into clear, coach-friendly metrics.
Cloud Data Management: A secure platform to store athlete profiles and track their progress over time.
How to Make Your Project Unique
While VueMotion provides "all biomechanical tests," you can differentiate by building specialized features for the high-injury zones of football:
1. Dynamic Valgus & ACL Risk Analysis
Instead of just measuring jump height, calculate the knee valgus angle (inward cave) during a landing or "cutting" maneuver. This is a critical predictor for ACL tears that general movement apps often overlook.
2. The "Fatigue Form-Failure" Detector
The Concept: Compare a player's mechanics at the start of training versus the end.
Functionality: Use your DNN to flag when a player's Ground Contact Time increases or their hips drop—indicators of fatigue that significantly heighten injury risk.
3. Ball-Strike Bio-Mechanics
The Concept: Most biomechanical apps ignore the ball.
Functionality: Integrate Object Detection for the football. Analyze the "Plant Leg" stability during a high-power shot to predict risks for hip or groin strains.
4. "Ghost" Corrective Overlay
The Concept: Real-time visual feedback for the athlete.
Functionality: Overlay a semi-transparent "Perfect Movement" skeleton (your optimal model) directly over the player's video. If they deviate, the skeleton changes color (e.g., to red), providing instant visual coaching.
Recommended Next Steps
To build a resume-ready version, I recommend focusing on one specific football action to start:
The "Cutter": Focus on change-of-direction stability (ACL focus).
The "Sprinter": Focus on late-session sprint mechanics (Hamstring focus).
The "Striker": Focus on high-power shooting posture (Hip focus).
Which of these football-specific actions would you like to build the first analysis model for? I can help you with the specific joint angle formulas for that movement.
AI can make mistakes, so double-check responses




should we just focus on hip, knees and ankles movement because these joints cause are more injury prone
Yes, focusing on the Hips, Knees, and Ankles (the "Lower Kinetic Chain") is exactly the right move for a football-specific project. In sports science, this is often called the Triple Extension/Flexion chain, and it is where over 80% of non-contact football injuries occur.
However, to make this "Resume Ready," you shouldn't just track them in isolation. You must track how they interact with each other.
1. Why this is the "Golden Trio" for your Project
The Knee (The Victim): Most ACL/MCL injuries happen at the knee, but the knee is usually a "victim" of what’s happening at the hip or ankle.
The Hip (The Engine): Weak hip abductors cause the knee to cave in (Valgus).
The Ankle (The Foundation): Poor ankle mobility (dorsiflexion) forces the knee to take more impact during landing.
2. Specific Biomechanical "Red Flags" to Program
If you focus on these three, here are the Core Abnormalities your DNN should detect to be unique compared to VueMotion:
Joint	What to Detect (The Abnormality)	The Injury Predicted
Knee	Dynamic Knee Valgus (Knee caving inward during a cut/landing)	ACL Tear
Hip	Trendelenburg Gait / Hip Drop (One side of the pelvis drops during a sprint)	Groin Strain / ACL
Ankle	Reduced Dorsiflexion Angle (Heel lifting too early or knee not moving forward enough)	Achilles Tendonitis / Shin Splints
Combined	Asymmetry (Left leg vs. Right leg angle difference > 10%)	Hamstring Tear
3. Adding the "Pro" Touch: The Trunk/Core
While you focus on the legs, there is one more "invisible" joint you should include: The Center of Mass (Pelvis/Lower Spine).
Why? If a footballer's "Trunk" leans too far outside their base of support during a turn, the torque on the ACL increases by nearly 2x.
Implementation: You don't need a complex spine model. Just track the Mid-Hip point (the center of the pelvis) and its relation to the feet.
4. Technical Workflow for your DNN/OpenCV Stack:
Extract Landmarks: Use MediaPipe/YOLO-Pose to get [x, y] coordinates for: hip_left, knee_left, ankle_left and hip_right, knee_right, ankle_right.
Calculate Vectors: Create vectors between the joints.
Example: Vector A (Hip to Knee), Vector B (Knee to Ankle).
Angle Calculation: Use the Dot Product formula in Python to find the interior angle:
python
# Pseudo-code for Knee Angle
angle = arccos(dot_product(vector_hip_knee, vector_knee_ankle))
Use code with caution.
The "Correction" Logic: Compare this angle against a "Safety Threshold" (e.g., if Knee Valgus > 15 degrees, flag as RED).
My Recommendation for your MVP (Minimum Viable Product):
Focus on the "Single Leg Squat" or "Drop Jump" test. This is the gold standard for football medicals.
If the Hip, Knee, and Ankle don't stay in a straight vertical line during the movement, your system triggers an "Injury Risk" alert.